- [Invizo: Arabic Handwritten Document Optical Character Recognition Solution](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.05277) #Thesis
	- Abstract
		- Converting images of Arabic text into plain text is a widely researched topic in academia and industry. However, recognition of Arabic handwritten and printed text presents
		  difficult challenges due to the complex nature of variations of the Arabic script. This work proposes an end-to-end solution for recognizing Arabic handwritten, printed, and Arabic numbers and presents the data in a structured manner. We reached 81.66% precision, 78.82% Recall, and 79.07% F-measure on a Text Detection task that powers the proposed solution. The
		  proposed recognition model incorporates state-of-the-art CNNbased feature extraction, and 
		  ransformer-based sequence modeling to accommodate variations in handwriting styles, stroke
		  thicknesses, alignments, and noise conditions. The evaluation of the model suggests its strong performances on both printed and handwritten texts, yielding 0.59% CER and & 1.72% WER on
		  printed text, and 7.91% CER and 31.41% WER on handwritten text. The overall proposed solution has proven to be relied on in reallife OCR tasks. Equipped with both detection and recognition models as well as other Feature Extraction and Matching helping algorithms. With the general purpose implementation, making the solution valid for any given document or receipt that is Arabic handwritten or printed. Thus, it is practical and useful for any given context.